
"USER FRIENDLY" for July 16, 1994
by Calvin Demmon

  ("User Friendly" runs each Saturday in the Monterey County Herald,
  Monterey, Calif.  It is also posted each week on the Marshall
  bulletin board -- phone number listed at bottom.)




                   GARY KILDALL'S WORK LIVES ON

  The inventor of the C-prompt is dead.

  When Gary Kildall's death this week at Community Hospital of the Monterey
Peninsula was reported, the stories focused, quite properly, on his creation
of the CP/M operating system, a major contribution to the development of
personal computing.

  Most PC users no longer use CP/M, but everyone in the  DOS-compatible world
still sees Kildall's work when DOS is running on the screen.

  That little A, B, or C with the arrowpoint after it is the way Kildall
solved the problem of identifying disk drives on a system. It's the kind of
thing you take for granted if you've been using it for years, but if it hadn't 
been for Kildall, some other display might be on your screen at the operating
system level.

  I met Kildall a couple of times, in the course of interviewing him for The
Herald and for a San Francisco Bay area computer magazine for which I wrote a
story about his forays into the then-uncharted world of CD-ROM.

  I liked him very much. He was intelligent, friendly and slyly humorous.

  And he was, first and foremost, a teacher. He had been a professor of
computer science at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey when, in 1972,
he wrote the first version of CP/M. His professorial habits never left him
even after he became one of the most famous members of the personal computing
pantheon.

  If you happened to be standing near a blackboard, Kildall couldn't resist
picking up a piece of chalk and sketching out charts and timelines and bell
curves to illustrate whatever he was saying. What he had to say was nearly
always fascinating.

  Digital Research, the company that Kildall founded, brought hundreds of
talented people to the Monterey area as it expanded. For a time it seemed we
might have a Silicon Peninsula here, with Digital Research booming in Pacific
Grove and Lifetree Software producing Volkswriter in Monterey.

  But Lifetree is defunct, and Digital Research has been absorbed into Novell.
  Digital Research never quite recovered from IBM's anointing of MS-DOS
instead of CP/M as the operating system for its personal computers, and none
of Digital's other products were ever so important or so universal as CP/M had 
been.

  The first full-featured computer I ever owned, an Osborne I, was CP/M-based. 
I learned my way around on that system, and when I finally switched to a DOS
machine, it wasn't all that different.

  MS-DOS, after all, was basically just a variation of CP/M. DOS featured the
A, B and C prompts. Its philosophy and many of its system commands were
identical.

  That was no surprise to Kildall, who told me that when he examined the first 
version of MS-DOS he found many lines of programming code that he recognized
because he had written them himself.

  Kildall could have sued Microsoft, but IBM promised to offer both
PC-DOS (its version of MS-DOS) and CP/ M with its IBM PCs. A lawsuit might
have stalled what looked to Kildall like a good marketing opportunity for
CP/M.

  There was a catch, though, and it doomed CP/M: IBM priced PC-DOS at $40 and
CP/M at $240. DOS was soon the industry standard, and CP/M faded into
obscurity.

  But CP/M isn't dead.

  Thursday, when I checked the comp.os.cpm newsgroup on the Usenet network
(via the Internet), there were 30 fresh messages relating to CP/M.

  Most were plaintive cries for help with ancient CP/M-based computers bearing 
names such as Amstrad, CompuPro, Kaypro and Cromemco.

  And about half-a-dozen folks had posted messages reporting Kildall's death,
including one Silicon Valley type who included (in the kind of copyright
violation that is typical in cyberspace) the complete Kildall obituary from
the San Jose Mercury.

  Among the other messages was one titled "Wanted: CP/M Boot Disk."
  What that guy wanted was what Gary Kildall created 22 years ago, and what we 
all wanted not long ago -- the key piece of software that made the personal
computer revolution not only possible but inevitable.
